All right so you get the data set you need to go to super dot assigns dot com slash training and then
if you scroll down in part one realisation we need this section to how to use Tablo for data mining
this dataset.
So once you've downloaded it it's a couple megabytes I think.
Then if you go to resolutions section or this is a folder that I created my desktop has got three sections
for this part of a course and then churn investigation.
There's churn modeling Oh it's just below megabyte.
So we're going to open this up in Excel.
Let me just you this here.
And the interesting thing about this data set is it's actually the same one that we're going to be using
for modeling down the track in the next part of the course.
And therefore you get kind of a sneak peek of what to expect.
It's always a good thing and that's how you would normally do it in a science project you would investigate
your data set your mind at for data and then after you have some insights you would only then go ahead
and create the model.
So kind of we're doing it in the right chronology there anyway.
So what does this data set.
It's quite a large dose.
It's got 10000 rows.
It's got quite a few columns.
This is a list of customers of a bank.
Of course the sulf dictionary.
So not a real list of customers of a bank and the customer I.D. here.
They've got their surnames or the credit score of the person where the person's back.
So let me explain the situation.
There is this this is a bank in Europe that has operates in three countries France Spain and Germany
.
And it's got a lot of customers But recently they've seen they've been seeing a problem a lot of customers
have been leaving their bank like on non normal churn rates so churn is when people leave a company
and something they're not used to seeing and they're they decided to hire you as a ton of scientists
to investigate this situation and tell them what exactly is going on and gives them some insights into
the pros so they can come up with ways to fix it.
So what this data set represents is it's not all of their customers is a massive bank.
So this is just a small sample of their customers and what they did is they took this snapshot of their
customers.
They took 10000 customers randomly selected 10000 customers and then they said OK let's find out everything
we can about them the customer the surname credit score geography where they bank gender age how long
they've been with the bank that's Ten-Year balance number of products they have for banks that they
have a credit card or a loan maybe a savings account have they do they have a credit card or not.
Are they an active member so have they logs into the online banking in the past month or the definition
of this can be different.
Can be.
Have they logged into their online banking past month or can it.
It can be.
Have they made a transaction in the past two months or something to that so it can be anything but they
gave you this variable as a flag so you can go ahead and use it now and then like you would I either
know the definition as they give you the variable or you can find out later if you find that this is
an important verbal estimated salary so how much of that is is the banks think they're earning because
they can't tell they can't they don't know that information they estimated the salary and then they
didn't have this column originally.
So what they did is they found out all this information and this is how these things are normally done
.
Right.
So when you have a problem you want to run a test.
So they found these 10000 customers randomly selected them funnel the information about them and then
said OK so we got to watch these customers for six months and within six months we want to find out
who these customers will leave and who these customers will stay and that's how this Colma here.
So six months later they went back to this list and they checked.
OK who left the bank.
And if the person left the bank to put a one person stay still if the bank put a zero.
So basically what this means is that you have some information customers which was measured before six
months before the event or the second measurement took place.
And then when the second measurement took place you kind of.
No no.
Six months on the track.
Which customers are more likely to leave or which customers actually left.
And from this information all of this information together in here you need to derive some insights
for the bank and tell them OK maybe you know like things that you can observe some trends or some behavioral
tendencies so this is all going to be analyzing a behavioral segmentation is going to be fun.
We're going to look at for instance are females more likely to leave the bank and males and this can
make sense right.
It's a it's a basic Abts you want to see.
All right.
How many female customers left how many male customers left of all of these totals.
And then obviously you have to normalize it by by the number of total female and male customers because
this is probably going to be disproportionate anyway.
And then you want to find out.
So based on this column who is more likely fellow females or males or is it equal.
And then you report that to the bank in Utah.
OK.
Actually imagine if you see that only female customers are leaving.
How valuable is that to a bank.
They'll be like Oh we're definitely doing something wrong and we need to cater for this segment overall
market and make sure our offering is you know the right thing exactly what they're looking for maybe
there's a competitor a bank you know some in some in one of the regions there's another bank that is
take us taking away all of the customers for from from this bank.
So there's lots of things that you might be able find out you will find in the upcoming stories is going
to be fun.
And this is how you investigate you learn how to investigate datasets like this so look for dependencies
when you have like a binary outcome and you don't.
It doesn't have to be customer data.
So for a lot of customer centric organization this is going to be valuable.
So I've done this personally I've done this so many times it is such a value add to any customer centric
organization.
So whenever whenever an organization deals with customers this is a lot of value.
This is we're slowly venturing into the church of segmentation and then the other thing is even if your
organization is not dealing directly with customers you don't have Darcis like like this or as a data
scientist you're working on different projects you will still find a lot of valuable insights on how
to run a B tests and Tablo how to work with chi square tests.
What they mean basically and even just working with Tablo will be very valuable along learning how to
work with Sabby Tablo will be valuable on the way.
So without further ado let's get straight into it.
We're going to get started in the next tutorial and I look forward to seeing you there.